## What is this? ##
This is a monthly log that I will use to capture my progress as I learn to code, in the spirit of Learning in Public. (Even though I'm learning in public, some of these notes may only make sense to me.)    

My goals with the logs:
1. All Non-Zero days - update the log daily with the stuff I worked on.
2. Use the logs from the previous week as kindling, my goals for the following week as tinder, and my feelings in the moment as the spark to write fire weekly blog posts (and you'd better believe that if we're using logs as kindling, we're gonna light some big ol' fires). Then, tweet the summary and a link to the post.
3. Each month, create new monthly goals that can be broken down into weekly goals.

### July 2020 Goals
**TBD**

### July 2020 Log
**2020/07/01**: continued learning.    
**2020/07/02**: continued learning.    
**2020/07/03**: added Show route to practice RESTful Aircraft blog app.    
**2020/07/04**: finished RESTful Aircraft blog app by adding Edit, Update, and Destroy routes. Began data associations section of the Udemy course. It's all downhill from here!         
**2020/07/05**: continued working on Data Associations section, learning about Embedding data vs Referencing data with "blog posts" as the example (one:many relationship because one user can have many blog posts, but each blog post only has one user). When embedding data, the blog post objects are embedded in an array in the user object (in the post property), whereas when refercing data, the post property's value is an array filled with object IDs, which _reference_ the various post objects.    
**2020/07/06**: finished Data Associations sections by learning about module.exports and started refactoring YelpCamp a bit to make it more modular.    
**2020/07/07**: continued working on YelpCamp app by creating a seed file to delete and create the campsites and test comments upon each server reload, using 'error oriented programming' lol. Also did a little bit of research on Flutter, a UI Library that is somewhat of a competitor to React Native that allows devs to design app UIs for any screen (including [refrigerators](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DIgqx5cUyXM){:target="\_blank"})!    
**2020/07/08**: continued working on YelpCamp app and updated some code to use more current syntax with async/await.     
**2020/07/09**: continued working on YelpCamp app by beginning to add comments routes and related infrastructure    
**2020/07/10**: finished basic comment get/post route sections and am moving on to user auth next!    
**2020/07/11**: began user authentication lessons.    
**2020/07/12**: continued user authentication lessons, creating user registration and login forms and routes. The login post route creation included using authentication middleware. It's interesting to see more and more of the curtain being pulled back from websites. I sometimes look at websites and feel like I better understand how they work, and if not, get curious about what the websites' devs are doing to make them work in certain ways.      
**2020/07/13**: finished user auth section and went back to yelpcamp to start adding auth logic/routes. added register logic/routes so far.    
**2020/07/14**: continued YelpCamp Auth section by creating login and logout routes and writing some ~custom~ middleware to prevent users from writing (or secretly posting) comments if they're not logged in. With passport.js and all these other packages, adding user auth is crazy easy.    
**2020/07/15**: finished adding user auth to YelpCamp! The last part was about customizing navbar behavior based on whether the user was logged in or not. We addeed some embedded js to the header partial (an if statement to be exact) and by writing middleware to pass the user variable (method?) to all routes in the app.js file. 'Twas quite dope.     
**2020/07/16**: refactored app.js routes into their own files to clean up code.   
**2020/07/17**: began adding user associations by automatically posting username of the author of a comment.    
**2020/07/18**: listened to podcast about UX. A few takeaways: 
* UX is the way a someone interacts with a designed system (e.g. the layout of a store - does it make sense?)
* design testing will reveal the way users actually think, which may be different from the designer's idea of how the user will interact with the site - so don't fall in love with the best way to use a site, because you're likely wrong. It's best to do design testing one on one and explain that if the user gets something wrong, it's because the system is wrong, not them.

**2020/07/19**: continued YelpCamp cleanup lessons - working on adding auth to campground creation.    
