## What is this? ##
This is a monthly log that I will use to capture my progress as I learn to code, in the spirit of Learning in Public. (Even though I'm learning in public, some of these notes may only make sense to me.)    

My goals with the logs:
1. All Non-Zero days - update the log daily with the stuff I worked on.
2. Use the logs from the previous week as kindling, my goals for the following week as tinder, and my feelings in the moment as the spark to write fire weekly blog posts (and you'd better believe that if we're using logs as kindling, we're gonna light some big ol' fires). Then, tweet the summary and a link to the post.
3. Each month, create new monthly goals that can be broken down into weekly goals.

### June 2020 Goals
**TBD**

### June 2020 Log
**2020/06/01**: finished udemy intermediate express lessons including learning about creating post request routes and making post requests with postman and forms. Up next......working with APIs!!!!    
**2020/06/02**: began API lessons and made first api request using, what else, but [request](https://www.npmjs.com/package/request){:target="\_blank"}. Turns out, the request package is deprecated, but [this Github thread](https://github.com/request/request/issues/3143){:target="\_blank"} has a list of alternative libs.    
**2020/06/03**: continued API vids    
**2020/06/04**: continued API lessons. learned about callbacks vs promsises. very...promising :)     
**2020/06/05**: finished API section! Next up.....YelpCamp :O    
**2020/06/06**: began YelpCamp app!    
**2020/06/07**: added partials to YelpCamp app routes    
**2020/06/08**: added post route and form to add new campgrounds to campgrounds route (although they aren't saved when the server restarts because we don't have a db set up yet). Styled the campgrounds page with Bootstrap 3.    
**2020/06/09**: styled navbars across all of YelpCamp v1 by adding navbar to header partial, and styled new campground form page. That concluded YelpCamp basics, and I started on the databases lessons and practiced opening MongoDB! Colt also mentioned the high level difference between SQL and NoSQL DBs - mainly SQL is used in relational databases (tabular) and NoSQL DBs are flexible, JSON-like (actually called BSON, or binary js object notation). I didn't know about NoSQL databases, of which MongoDB is one, until today!    
**2020/06/10**: practiced commands in MongoDB, coming back to the concept of a CRUD app (create, read, update, delete........or in MongoDB terms, an IFUR app: insert, find, update, remove). Looking at a db that is not relational is a bit stressful haha, not sure if it's because everything seeems to flow so freely or if it's because the concept is so new to me. I never thought a NoSQL db even really existed, so this is cool stuff. Up next is Mongoose, and I think things will get pretty interesting and real back-endy!    
**2020/06/11**: finished databases section after creating first database with the help of mongoose. I'm still feeling pretty shaky on this back end stuff, but it makese sense conceptually, so hopefully practicing a bit more will cement the actual syntax. Next up, adding a db to YelpCamp!    
**2020/06/12**: connected mongoose to YelpCamp v2 and introduced data persistence to the app! insanity.    
**2020/06/13**: added SHOW route to YelpCamp so that we can see a campground's description when clicking on a 'view more info' button! Added descriptions to db via the form.    
**2020/06/14**: began RESTful Routes section.    
**2020/06/15**: continued RESTful Routes lessons, setting up a blog back-end template in preparation for index route.    
**2020/06/16**: worked on fcc Bootstrap lessons.     
**2020/06/17**: finished RESTful Blog index lesson    
**2020/06/18**: made the RESTful Blog app b-e-a-u-tiful with some styling using Semantic UI and began lesson in which we'll make the NEW and CREATE routes.    
**2020/06/19**: continued RESTful lessons finishing NEW and CREATE routes section and moving on to SHOW routes.     
**2020/06/20**: read some posts on r/cscareerquestions and online    
**2020/06/21**: continued RESTful routes lessons, specifically the SHOW route. I learned the value of refreshing a page w/o cache using ctrl + shift + R and boy did that clear up some issues.    
**2020/06/22**: continued RESTful routes lessons working on EDIT and UPDATE.    
**2020/06/23**: finished blog app after adding DELETE route! feeling pretty good about finishing this section. One last lesson is to sanitize the code (so users cannot do anything malicious to webpage, like running scripts) and to improve the styling a bit. Then, per Colt's suggestion, spend some time creating a new app, similar to the blogs app, for something else!     
