## What is this? ##
This is a monthly log that I will use to capture my progress as I learn to code, in the spirit of Learning in Public. (Even though I'm learning in public, some of these notes may only make sense to me.)    

My goals with the logs:
1. All Non-Zero days - update the log daily with the stuff I worked on.
2. Use the logs from the previous week as kindling, my goals for the following week as tinder, and my feelings in the moment as the spark to write fire weekly blog posts (and you'd better believe that if we're using logs as kindling, we're gonna light some big ol' fires). Then, tweet the summary and a link to the post.
3. Each month, create new monthly goals that can be broken down into weekly goals.

### May 2020 Goals
1. Finish Web Developer Bootcamp Udemy course
2. Write at least one blog post

### May 2020 Log
**2020/05/01**: continued Udemy js arrays lessons.    
**2020/05/02**: continued Udemy js arrays lessons.
**2020/05/03**: finished Udemy js arrays lessons. the last lesson was a bonus lesson that included creating a function that was higher-order (so it took a function as an argument), and included adding the function to the Array prototype chain! this was cool (get it).    
**2020/05/04**: moving right on through the udemy js object lessons. Learning some interesting tidbits along the way, like that object keys can be strings with spaces, and that if an object key begins with an underscore, it can be accessed with dot notation without problem (even if everyone looks at you funny for starting the name of your key with an underscore). Something keeping me interested ane excited to keep moving forward these days is the prospect of working with APIs. It would be super cool to, say, write a program using Zillow's API and Twilio that sends us a text each time a new home with certain filters is put on the market in a desired geographic location. The text message could be modified with info, pics, links, etc.    
**2020/05/05**: finished the js objects section and am moving right along into the DOM section. Thinking that I'd like to go back and practice some html + css in FCC and earn my responsive web design cert...     
**2020/05/06**: continued DOM lesson    
**2020/05/07**: continued DOM manipulation lesson.    
**2020/05/08**: continued DOM manipulation lessons and finished basics - moved onto advanced lessons woop woop! This is starting to get pretty interesting! A SWE contact reached out on LinkedIn, which was nice!    
**2020/05/09**: continued DOM manipulation lessons including event listeners. Currently working on an interesting score keeper app; relatively simple but powerful stuff!    
**2020/05/10**: continued DOM manipulation lessons and learned about new event listeners. Colt mentions the [MDN Events page](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Events){:target="\_blank"} as a good resource.    
**2020/05/11**: finished advanced DOM manipulation lessons and am onto code following to create an rgb color guessing game. Very cool!    
**2020/05/12**: continued working on color guesser game!    
**2020/05/13**: finished color guesser game lessons and began jQuery lessons. Sounds like it's worth knowing, even if many people/companies are moving away from it.    
**2020/05/14**: continued jQuery lessons.    
**2020/05/15**: continued jQuery lessons.    
**2020/05/16**: continued jQuery lessons - specifically .attr() and .val()    
**2020/05/17**: continued jQuery lessons - specifically .addClass(), .removeClass(), and .toggleClass()    
**2020/05/18**: began jQuery events lessons - interesting that in jQuery, you have to write 'this' as $(this)    
**2020/05/19**: finished jQuery lessons and began FCC html/css tribute page    
**2020/05/20**: finished FCC [Tribute Page](https://codepen.io/jahberk/full/XWmogjp){:target="\_blank"} to Simon Bolivar using plain html and css! Feelin good on a Wednesday ya ya ya!    
**2020/05/21**: began udemy jQuery todo list app!    
**2020/05/22**: continued working on todo list app    
**2020/05/23**: finished todo list app. began patatap clone - colt mentions that it's good to do this so that we work with different libraries. for this project, we'll be working with paper.js (for animations) and howler.js (for audio). goal is to have a simpler clone of [patatap](https://www.patatap.com/){:target="\_blank"} **(warning: flashing lights/colors)**. next is back end! I'm tempted to jump ahead, but this seems like a quick project that is fun and could be helpful - working with different js libraries seems like a good thing to practice.    
**2020/05/24**: continued patatap clone.    
**2020/05/25**: finished patatap clone and began backend section! so far, it's interesting - downloaded Postman to track requests and colt had a video about making http requests.     
**2020/05/26**: finished Backend Basics and Intro to Command Line videos - the Command Line reminds me of shortcuts in Excel - right now, it is a bit of a struggle to remember them, but soon they'll be second nature and preferable to using the mouse (even though the major 6 we're using are cd, ls, mkdir, touch, rm, and rm -rf). I started the intro to Node videos and am on the cusp of writing server-side code! Pretty crazy stuff. Today I thought about how I've been doing this for over 4 months straight and, to brag for a moment, I'm pretty proud of it! Yes, I have a long way to go, but it's pretty cool that I've stuck with it and am this far along. I am super grateful for Colt's Intro to Web Development course and of course for freeCodeCamp. Here's to the next 4-5 months...I bet if I stick with it, I'll be creating some awesome stuff!!!!    
**2020/05/27**: Wow! Did a whole lotta stuff today. Finished the intro to Node including learning about npm (the package [faker](https://www.npmjs.com/package/faker){:target="\_blank"} is a fun one). Additionally, I learned started on the Express basics lessons and ran my first express app! It was extremely simple but Colt talks about how powerful Express is and I believe him. Pretty cool stuff - excited to see what tomorrow brings!    
