## The Logs ##
Daily progress logs.

### January 2021
**2021/01/02**: Guess who's baaaaaaaack!!! I have done some work in Colt's updated course - I am working through the [migration guide](https://www.notion.so/WDB-2-0-Migration-Guide-43af6af65ec743d385c2aa01ba4c516c){:target="\_blank"}. So far I have made it to the HTML Tables & Forms lessons. I have some plans for this blog this year- I will likely consolidate all logs to this page and create a working list of project ideas. Then, I will break out each project I work on into its own post with progress updates, challenges, and lessons learned - all likely copied from this blog. I still love programmatic thinking and am excited to see where this takes me. So far, I know I want to learn more about pulling data with APIs - I think Colt's course will do a great job foundationally with creating web pages, but there's a "learn Python with fantasy football" course someone posted on r/FantasyFootball, and I know that KJB had success with a University of Michigan Intro to Programming with Python course. Regardless, good things are ahead.  
**2021/01/03**: continued Colt's course with html forms lessons - kind of painful to be rewatching some of this stuff given how far I'd gotten, but after a few weeks, I should be back to learning new stuff rather than rehashing content I've learned a few times, especially when it comes to updated JS and a deeper look into authentication and databases. I also noticed that I had purchased (or signed up for when it was free) the Automate the Boring stuff with Python course on Udemy! So that could be a useful course to jump into.  
**2021/01/04**: continued forms lessons!  
**2021/01/05**: did some cs career research on reddit.  
**2021/01/06**: continued forms lessons learning about client side validation with html.  
**2021/01/07**: finished colt course forms section and did some basic css exercises - next I'm moving on to css selectors and pseudo classes (will likely skim through this and get to box model stuff soon).  
**2021/01/08**: whoops.  
**2021/01/09**: made it through css selectors and pseudo classes section. Next up, box model. This stuff is kind of boring as I've been through it a few times before, but the important thing is that soon I will be moving back into JS land and it looks like Colt added a lot of interesting new stuff to the course.  
**2021/01/10**: jumped into box model lessons.  
**2021/01/11**: continued box model lessons. next up, css units.  
